Delhi-Varanasi High Speed Rail Corridor: Board bullet train  .

Read more at:
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/articleshow/90407878.cms?utm_source=contentofinterest&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=cppst
Arvind Chauhan / TNN / Updated: Mar 24, 2022, 14:04 IS ..

LUCKNOW: The Avadh crossing in the state capital that connects expressway and highway with city is also likely to be the pit stop for the ‘Bullet Train’ planned to start cruising on the Delhi-Varanasi High Speed Rail Corridor (DVHSR) by 2029.
On February 11, while replying to a question in Rajya Sabha, the railway ministry announced plans to undertake a survey and prepare the detailed project report (DPR) for seven corridors, including DVHSR.
According to government officials, there would be 13 stations, including 12 elevated in Uttar Pradesh and one underground in Delhi, on the 813-km track on which the train would cruise at 330 kmph.
It will take a minimum of 3 hours 33 minutes to reach Varanasi from the national capital with limited halts. Nearly 15 km long tunnel would be constructed for the underground station.
t
Since the route alignment of DVHSR is along the Yamuna and Agra-Lucknow Expressway and proposed Ganga Expressway to avoid forest and wildlife, the train is likely to have its station in Lucknow at the Avadh crossing. “Total 43 trains per day will reach the Avadh crossing station every 22 minutes,” said an official.
Starting from Hazrat Nizamuddin, the train would take halts at Noida sector 146 metro station, Jewar airport, Mathura, Agra, Etawah, Kannauj, Lucknow, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh, Prayagraj, Bhadohi and terminate at Manduadih (Varanasi).
A foot over bridge (FOB) would connect the station at Avadh crossing to Singar Nagar Metro station so that passengers can reach their destinations in the city.
READ ALSO
New plan: Nagpur to Mumbai via bullet train in just 3.5 hours
NAGPUR: The Indian Railways have proposed bullet train services between Nagpur and Mumbai, which will cover the approximately 766km distance in just three and a half hours, along the soon-to-be-ready Samruddhi Expressway. The train is expected to travel at the highest speed of 350km per hour.

New plan: Nagpur to Mumbai via bullet train in just 3.5 hours
Similarly, an FOB would be constructed from the Prayagraj station to Phaphamau railway station.
As per the proposed plan, 18 trains would operate daily at the gap of 47 minutes from Varanasi.
In Delhi, the DVHSR underground station would be opposite Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station, while in Noida it would be opposite to sector 146 Metro station. In Jewar, the DVHSR station would be part of the Jewar airport transport network.
READ ALSO
Delhi: High-strength tracks for RRTS trains
The existing tracks for Metro projects in India are usually designed for trains operating at speed of up to 95 kmph. The Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor, where trains have a design speed of 180 kmph and would run at 160 kmph, however, needed tracks suitable for high-speed

Delhi: High-strength tracks for RRTS trains
According to authorities, another section of DVHSR has been proposed to connect Lucknow and Ayodhya, but that would depend on cost feasibility..Apart from Delhi-Varanasi route, surveys would be conducted for Varanasi-Howrah, Delhi-Amritsar, Delhi-Ahmedabad, Mumbai-Hyderabad, Mumbai-Nagpur, and Chennai-Mysore via Bengaluru.
Currently, the national high speed rail corporation limited (NHSRCL) is working on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad corridor.

abhijit said "I am learning a SpaCy"
